and it came to pass after many days that
the word of the Lord came to Elijah in
the third year go present yourself to
Ahab and I will send rain on the earth
so Elijah went to present himself to a
hat and there was a severe famine in
Samaria and a hab had called Obadiah who
was in charge of his house now Obadiah
feared the Lord greatly for so it was
while Jezebel massacred the prophets of
the Lord that Obadiah had taken 100
prophets and hidden them fifty to a cave
and had fed them with bread and water
and a hab had said to Obadiah go into
the land to all the springs of water and
to all the Brooks perhaps we may find
grass to keep the horses and mules alive
so that we will not have to kill any
livestock so they divided the land
between them to explore it a hab went
one way by himself and Obadiah went
another way by himself
now as Obadiah was on his way suddenly
Elijah met him and he recognized him and
fell on his face is that you my Lord
Elijah
it is I go tell your master Elijah is
here how have I sinned that you are
delivering your servant into the hand of
a have to kill me as the Lord your God
lives there is no nation or Kingdom
where my master has not sent someone to
hunt for you and when they said he is
not here he took an oath from the
kingdom a nation that they could not
find you and now you say go tell your
master Elijah is here and it shall come
to pass as soon as I am gone from you
that the Spirit of the Lord will carry
you to a place I do not know so when I
go until they have and he cannot find
you he will kill me
but I have servant had feared the Lord
from my youth was it not reported to my
lord what I did when Jezebel killed the
prophets of the Lord how I hid 100 men
the Lord's prophets 52 became and fed
them with bread water
and now you say go tell your master
Elijah is here
he would killed me as the Lord of Hosts
lives before whom I stand I will surely
present myself to him today so a bird I
went to meet a hand and told him and a
hab went to meet Elijah then it happened
when Ahab saw a light that a HAP said to
him is that you o troubler of Israel
I have not troubled Israel but you and
your father's house have and that you'll
forsaken the commandments of the Lord
and have followed the bales now
therefore send and gather all Israel to
me on Mount Carmel the 450 prophets of
Bale and the four hundred prophets of
Asherah who eat at Jezebel's table so
Ahab sent for all the children of Israel
and gathered the prophets together on
Mount cup and Elijah came to all the
people and said how long will you falter
between two opinions if the Lord is God
follow him but if Bale follow him but
the people answered him not a word I
alone and left a prophet of the Lord
but bales profits are 450 men and
therefore let them give us two bulls and
let them choose one bull for themselves
cut it in pieces and lay it on the wood
but to put no fire under it and I will
prepare the other Pole and lay it on the
wood but put no fire under it then you
call in the name of your gods and I will
call in the name of the Lord and the God
who answers by fire He is God it is well
spoken our Elijah said to the prophets
of bail choose one ball for yourselves
and prepared first for you are many
and call in the name of your God but put
no fire under it so they took the bull
which was given them and they prepared
it and called on the name of bail from
morning even to noon
Oh bail hear us but there was no voice
no one answered
then they leaked about the altar which
they had made and so it was at noon that
Elijah mocked them cry aloud for he is a
God either he is meditating or he is
busy or he is on a journey or perhaps he
is sleeping and must be awakened so they
cried aloud and cut themselves as was
their custom with knives and Lance's
until the blood gushed out on them and
when midday was passed they prophesied
until the time of the offering of the
evening sacrifice but there was no voice
no one answered no one paid attention
then Elijah said to all the people come
near to me so all the people came near
to him
and he repaired the altar of the Lord
that was broken down and Elijah took 12
stones according to the number of the
tribes of the sons of Jacob to whom the
word of the Lord had come saying Israel
shall be your name and with the stones
he built an altar in the name of the
Lord and he made a trench around the
altar large enough to hold two seers of
see and he put the wood in order cut the
bull in pieces and laid it on the wood
and said fill for water wise with water
and poured on the bird sacrifice and on
the wood
do it a second time and they did it a
second time do it a third time and they
did it a third time so the water ran all
around the altar and he also filled the
trench with water and it came to pass at
the time of the offering of the evening
sacrifice that Elisha the prophet came
near
Lord God of Abraham Isaac and Israel let
it be known this day that you are God in
Israel and I am your servant and that I
have done all these things at your word
hear me o Lord hear me that this people
may know that you are the Lord God and
that you have turned their hearts back
to you again then the fire of the Lord
fell and consumed the burnt sacrifice
and the wood and the stones of the dust
and it licked up the water that was in
the trench when all the people saw it
they fell on their faces seized the
prophets of bale do not let one of them
escape so they seized them and Elisha
brought them down to the brook Kishon
and executed them there
then Elijah said to Ahab go up eat a
drink
but there is the sound of abundance of
rain so Ahab went up to eat and drink
and Elijah went up to the top of comedy
and he bowed down on the ground and put
his face between his knees and said to
his servant go up now look toward to see
so he went up and looked there is
nothing and seven times he said go again
then it came to pass the seventh time
that he said
there is a cloud as small as a man's
hand rising out of the sea go up say to
a heaven prepare your chariots and go
down before the rain stops Hill now it
happened in the mean time that the sky
became black with clouds and wind and
there was a heavy rain
so Ahab rode away and went to Jezreel
then the hand of the Lord came upon
Elijah and he girded up his loins and
ran ahead of Ahab to the entrance of
Jesu